25. O Lord, thou art my God! I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name, for thou hast done
wonderful things, thy counsels of old are faithfulness and truth, for thou hast made
of a city a heap, of a defenced city a ruin, a palace of strangers to be no city, it shall
never be built. Therefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of the terrible
nations shall fear thee, for thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to the
needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heat, when the blast of
the terrible ones is as a storm against the wall. Thou shalt bring down the noise of strangers,
as the heat in a dry place, even the heat with the shadow of a cloud, the branch of the terrible
ones shall be brought low. And in this mountain shall the Lord of hosts make unto all people a
feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees
well refined. And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all people,
and the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death in victory, and the Lord God
will wipe away tears from off all faces, and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off
all the earth, for the Lord hath spoken it. And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God,
we have waited for him, and he will save us, this is the Lord, we have waited for him, we will be
glad and rejoice in his salvation. For in this mountain shall the hand of the Lord rest, and Moab
shall be trodden down under him, even as straw is trodden down for the dung hill. And he shall
spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim,
and he shall bring down their pride together with the spoils of their hands. And the fortress of the
high fort of thy walls shall he bring down, lay low, and bring to the ground, even to the dust.
Chapter 26. In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city,
salvation will God appoint for the walls and bulwarks. Open ye the gates that the righteous
nation which keepeth the truth may enter in. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace,
whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever,
for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. For he bringeth down them that dwell on high.
The lofty city he layeth it low, he layeth it low even to the ground, he bringeth it even to the dust.
The foot shall tread it down, even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy.
The way of the just is uprightness. Thou most upright dost weigh the path of the just.
Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O Lord, we have waited for thee.
The desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee.
With my soul have I desired thee in the night. Yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee
early. For when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.
Let favor be showed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness.
In the land of uprightness will he deal unjustly, and will not behold the majesty of the Lord.
Lord, when thy hand is lifted up, they will not see, but they shall see,
and be ashamed for their envy at the people. Yea, the fire of thine enemies shall devour them.
Lord, thou wilt ordain peace for us, for thou also hast wrought all our works in us.
O Lord our God, other Lords beside thee have had dominion over us, but by thee only will we make
mention of thy name. They are dead, they shall not live. They are deceased, they shall not rise.
Therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory to perish.
Thou hast increased the nation, O Lord. Thou hast increased the nation.
Thou art glorified. Thou hast removed it far unto all the ends of the earth.
Lord, in trouble have they visited thee. They poured out a prayer when thy chastening was
upon them. Like as a woman with child that draweth near the time of her delivery is in pain,
and crieth out in her pangs, so have we been in thy sight, O Lord. We have been with child,
we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind, we have not wrought any deliverance
in the earth, neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen. Thy dead men shall live,
together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust,
for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead. Come, my people,
enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee. Hide thyself, as it were,
for a little moment, until the indignation be overpassed. For behold, the Lord cometh out of
his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity. The earth also shall disclose
her blood, and shall no more cover her slain. Chapter 27. In that day the Lord with his saw
and great and strong sword shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that crooked
serpent, and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea. In that day sing ye unto her a vineyard
of red wine. I the Lord do keep it, I will water it every moment, lest any hurt it I will keep it
night and day. Fury is not in me. Who would set the briers and thorns against me in battle?
I would go through them, I would burn them together. Or let him take hold of my strength,
that he may make peace with me, and he shall make peace with me. He shall cause them that come of
Jacob to take root. Israel shall blossom and bud, and fill the face of the world with fruit.
Hath he smitten him, as he smote those that smote him? Or is he slain according to the
order of them that are slain by him? In measure, when it shooteth forth,
thou wilt debate with it. He stayeth this rough wind in the day of the east wind. By this therefore
shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged, and this is all the fruit to take away his sin. When he
maketh all the stones of the altar as chalk stones that are beaten in the sunder, the groves and
images shall not stand up. Yet the defenced city shall be desolate, and the habitation forsaken and
left like a wilderness. There shall the calf feed, and there shall he lie down and consume the
branches thereof. When the boughs thereof are withered, they shall be broken off. The women
come and set them on fire, for it is a people of no understanding. Therefore he that made them will
not have mercy on them, and he that formed them will show them no favour. And it shall come to
pass in that day, that the Lord shall beat off from the channel of the river unto the stream of
Egypt, and ye shall be gathered one by one, O ye children of Israel. And it shall come to pass
in that day, that the great trumpet shall be blown, and they shall come which were ready to
perish in the land of Assyria and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and shall worship the Lord
in the holy mount at Jerusalem. End of chapters 25 to 27.